# ELP/MPP02 Lunar Ephemeris: C++ Implementation

ELP/MPP02 is a semi-analytic solution for the lunar motion developed by J. Chapront and G. Francou in 2002. It is an improvement of the ELP2000-82B lunar theory.

Source paper: *The lunar theory ELP revisited. Introduction of new planetary perturbations* by J. Chapront and G. Francou, [Astronomy and Astrophysics, v.404, p.735-742 (2003)](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2003A%26A...404..735C) See also references to ELP2000-82B theory in the paper.

The authors provide data files, a FORTRAN code and a pdf documentation on [this ftp site](ftp://cyrano-se.obspm.fr/pub/2_lunar_solutions/2_elpmpp02/). ELP/MPP02 theory provides two sets of parameters adjusted to fit either the lunar laser ranging (LLR) observation data or JPL's DE405/DE406 ephemerides.

I have written C++ functions to compute the lunar positions based on the information on that ftp site. The full ELP/MPP02 theory contains series involving 35901 terms. High accuracy of lunar positions may not be necessary for some applications. It is therefore useful to create a truncated series to speed up computation. I have written routines that create a truncated series using 4 parameters. I also wrote a function to estimate the accuracy of the truncated series. 

JavaScript is convenient for HTML-based applications, such as my [local star charts](https://ytliu0.github.io/starCharts/) and [equatorial star charts](https://ytliu0.github.io/starCharts/chartGCRS_min.html) pages. I wrote C++ routines that generate JavaScript functions to compute a truncated ELP/MPP02 series.

The following is a summary of the files in this package. See [this pdf file](https://ytliu0.github.io/ElpMpp02/docs/ElpMpp02.pdf) for documentation.

- [index.html](https://ytliu0.github.io/ElpMpp02/): HTML page of this README document.
- 14 data files: elp_main.long, elp_main.lat, elp_main.dist, elp_pert.longT0, elp_pert.longT1, elp_pert.longT2, elp_pert.longT3, elp_pert.latT0, elp_pert.latT1, elp_pert.latT2, elp_pert.distT0, elp_pert.distT1, elp_pert.distT2, elp_pert.distT3. These data files are generated from the data files on the ftp site mentioned above. They are stored in a format more convenient for C++ implementation.
- ElpMpp02.cpp: Contains functions that compute the lunar position and velocity using both sets of parameters fitted to LLR and DE405/DE406. This is basically a C++ version of the FORTRAN code. The file example.cpp provides an example of using this code.
- ElpMpp_trim.cpp: Contains functions that generate a truncated version of the ELP/MPP02 series. A C++ file and 14 data files will be created by the code to implement the truncated series. It also contains a function that estimates the accuracy of the truncated series by performing a Monte Carlo simulation. The file example_usingElpMpp_trim.cpp provides an example of using this code. Currently only the lunar position is computed in the truncated series. Lunar velocity is not calculated.
- ElpMpp_JavaScript.cpp: Contains routines that generate JavaScript functions to compute a truncated ELP/MPP02 series (currently only lunar position is calculated). Two javascript files will be created by this code. They contain exactly the same functions, but one is human-readable and the other is a minified version (for production run). No data files will be generated. Terms in the ELP/MPP02 series are written explicitly in the JavaScript code.
- [ElpMpp02.html](https://ytliu0.github.io/ElpMpp02/ElpMpp02.html): A web-based JavaScript calculator that computes the lunar positions by ELP/MPP02 using both sets of parameters fitted to LLR and DE405/DE406. This is essentially a JavaScript version of the FORTRAN code. It is intended for code test.
- ElpMpp02_aux.js, ElpMpp02LLR_min.js, ElpMpp02DE_min.js: Contain JavaScript functions used by ElpMpp02.html. ElpMpp02LLR_min.js and ElpMpp02DE_min.js are generated by ElpMpp_JavaScript.h to compute the (untruncated) ELP/MPP02 series using parameters fitted to LLR and DE405/DE406. ElpMpp02_aux.js contains auxiliary functions to manage the activities on ElpMpp02.html.
- ElpMpp02.css: Style file used by this html file and ElpMpp02.html.
